---
title: Advent of Cyber 2022 [Day 10] | THM Writeup
published: true
---

## [](#header-1)[Day 10] `Hack a Game` You're mean one, Mr. Yeti

image

* * *

## Learning Objectives

*   Learn how data is stored in memory in games or other applications.
*   Use simple tools to find and alter data in memory.
*   Explore the effects of changing data in memory on a running game.


## The Memory of a Program

Whenever we execute a program, the CPU will process all data somehow through the computer’s RAM (Random Access Memory). If you think of a videogame, your HP, position, movement speed, and direction are all stored somewhere in memory and updated as needed as the game goes.

## The Mighty Cetus

Cetus is a simple browser plugin that works for Firefox and Chrome, allowing you to explore the memory space of Web Assembly games that run in your browser. This tool will help you to quickly find any piece of data stored in memory and modify it if needed. On top of that, it will let you change a game’s compiled code and alter its behaviors if you want, although we won’t need to go that deep for this task.

You can download Cetus [from here](https://github.com/Qwokka/Cetus/releases/download/v1.03.1/Cetus_v1.03.1.zip).

## Installing Cetus on Firefox

To run Cetus on Firefox, you will need to load it as a temporary extension since it isn't available on the add-ons website. To do this, open Firefox and type `about:debugging` in the address bar. Once in there, go to `This Firefox`, where you'll find a button to load temporary add-ons. Temporary add-ons will only be loaded for as long as the browser remains open, so you'll need to load it again if you close it for some reason:

image 3 here

* * *

## Accessing Cetus

To find Cetus, you need to open the `Web Developer tools` by clicking the button on the upper-right corner of Firefox, as shown in the figure below:

image 3-1

With Cetus open, hit the refresh button to reload the game.

image 3-2

## Guess the Guard's Number

image 4-1

We will use the `EQ` comparison operator, which will search for memory addresses which content is equal to the value we input. Note that you can also search values using any of the other available operators. For reference, this is what other operators do:

image 4-2

Since the guard uses a random number, you will likely find the memory address on the first try. Once you do, click the bookmark button on the right of the memory address:

image 4-3

You can then go to bookmarks to see your memory addresses:

image 4-4

Note that Cetus uses hexadecimal notation to show you the numbers. If you need to convert the shown numbers to decimal, you can use [this website](https://www.rapidtables.com/convert/number/hex-to-decimal.html).

With Cetus on the bookmarks tab, talk to the guard again and notice how the random number changes immediately. You can now guess the number:

image 4-5

image 4-6

* * *

## Getting through the bridge

To find the next flag, we have to cross the bridge. To accomplish this, we must find our HP value in the memory and alter it.
Start with a differential search, and don’t give any value as input.

image 5-1

You can run a second search using the `LT` operator without setting a value to search:
Try to get damaged by moving towards the snowballs.
You could do another search with the GT operator with no value again.

I found the memory address of my HP and changed its value to a high value(e.g., 99999 = 0x05F5E0FF), and I crossed the bridge.

image 5-2

image 5-3

image 5-4

